# Ford Go Bike Usage in February 2019
## by Amr Mohamed Abuelfadl


## Dataset

> The dataset contains 183412 and 16 columns. The dataset focused only on February 2019 and holds information about the duration of the ride in terms of the start datetime and endtime. As well as, info about the locations where the ride started or ended up, and finally, info regarding the rider in terms of date of birth, gender and user type. I have added also additional features such as day of the week and the hour of the start time, in addition to the age of the rider. The dataset was preprocessed before usage by removing the null values and duplicates, as well as, plotting visualizations to check for outliers as we want to focus more on the common cases to produce below accurate plots to find patterns and insights.

## Summary of Findings

> To begin with, in Univariate Exploration we have found that most of the rides spent less than 60 minutes, and the distribution of the days were mostly in working days. However, the least rides were taken during the weekends.¶In addition, most people take rides on 8 am and 6 pm which coreespond to the work timing for most of people. Furthermore, riders are mostly males and subscribers. We have found that 99% of the values are not exceeding the age of 66 and most of the riders were between 25 and 35. Moreover, in Bivariate Exploration we have found that We found that the median age value in males is slightly higher than females, as well as, the range in values or spread of age values is more wider in males. In addition, another finding is that customers spend more time in the ride than subscribers, this may be due to that subscribers take rides for certain daily missions that don't consume a lot of time. Furthermore, We found that start time from Monday to Friday are almost distributed the same , due that these are working days and mainly people take rides in the early morning to go to their work, as well as, reverve rides afternoon to go back home after work. However, in Saturday and Sunday which are weekends, people mainly take rides at 15 pm. Finally, another finding is that rides are almost taken at 8 am and 18 pm for a ride that does not exceed 10 mins, which means that people use bikes as the distance between their work and home is short. Finally, in Multivariate Exploration, we have found that relationships in this exploration were very insightful. The average duration spent is almost the same for all hours in weekdays except in Sunday at 4 pm which was the peak, due to people may prefer to take some city tours in their day off. Moreover, We found that for all user types the average age is almost the same for all genders between 35 and 38. Finally, we explored more the time spent by each user type all over the week and we found customers spend more time all over the week than subscribers. Due to the fact that subscribers user more their rides for certain missions such as going to their work and go back from work to home.

## Key Insights for Presentation

> 1. Most people take their rides on working days which is from Moday to Friday especially between 8am to 10am in the morning and between 16pm to 18pm in the afternoon and they spend almost 10 mins in their rides. The aforementioned results shows that users mainly take rides for their work as the distance between their work and home is not far, it takes only 10 mins almost.

> 2. Most of the users in the dataset are subscribers with 90.5%, however, the customers have the highest average trip duration in each day. Therefore, we can conclude that most of the subscribers use their rides to go work or back home as from Monday to Friday the average duration was almost the same 10 mins. On the other hand, customers have more variations in their average duration in each day and they spend more time in their rides during weekends. We have discovered here two different habits: subscribers take rides on their working days and customers take rides to spend more time in their weekends.

> 3. The average user type age for each gender is between 35 and 38.